---
tags: [role]
title: Software Engineer @ BaseKit
role:
  company_name: BaseKit
  job_title: Software Engineer
  start: 2012-05-07
  end: 2015-05-08
  next: mixradio
  prev: ents24
  topics: isomorphic rendering, billing systems and team leadership
  tech: [HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, Backbone, Bootstrap]
  practices: [Test-driven development]
logo:
  128: /2012/05/07/basekit@128x128.webp
  512: /2012/05/07/basekit@512x512.webp
permalink: /cv/basekit/index.html
layout: layout-role
description: >
  Front-line management and full-stack web development on a B2B SaaS website
  builder platform similar to Squarespace. This role was where I stopped being a
  junior engineer, accumulating some of my first real achievements and
  self-confidence.
---

1. TOC
{:toc}


## Isomorphic Rendering

Isomorhpic rendering was not yet a solved problem in the early 2010s, but its
benefits for a website builder product like ours were clear: we needed the
capability to quickly render client-side previews of widgets in the site
builder, while also rendering them server-side for published sites.

When a project to make our Twig templates renderable client-side came up, I
eagerly volunteered. After some initial prototyping we settled on
[twig.js](https://github.com/schmittjoh/twig.js), and I began extending its
functionality to meet our needs. In time I became the primary maintainer of
twig.js: [fixing bugs](https://github.com/schmittjoh/twig.js/issues/12),
[setting up an integration test suite](https://github.com/schmittjoh/twig.js/commit/68c9133efba97d58f52f60060360e950afdfd425),
and [reviewing pull requests](https://github.com/schmittjoh/twig.js/pull/79).

## Billing Systems

BaseKit made an early pivot from B2C to B2B, and I worked on the billing systems
for both business models.

The B2C billing system had sophisticated features such as pro-rata payments,
varying lengths of billing cycle, and even support for the notoriously tricky
"Boleto" payment flow popular in Brazil.

The B2B billing system consisted of a data pipeline whereby a central database
tracked how many seats were in use by each partner company based on a recurring
job that imported and analyzed data from each individual installation.

## Team Lead

During my second year at BaseKit I exchanged my role as a software engineer for
one as a team lead. The proportion of my time spent helping colleagues had
surpassed my time spent coding, so this was a natural step.

The extra influence over things like project planning and performance management
was a welcome force multiplier, enabling me to help my teammates even more.
