---
title: Senior Software Engineer @ Yazen
tags: [role]
role:
  company_name: Yazen
  job_title: Senior Software Engineer
  start: 2023-08-07
  end: 2024-12-20
  tech: [Firebase, Next.js, React Native]
  topics: e-learning, nutrition tracking, and localisation
  prev: spotify-soundtrap
  next: sveriges-radio
logo:
  128: /2023/08/07/yazen@128x128.webp
  512: /2023/08/07/yazen@512x512.webp
permalink: /cv/yazen/index.html
layout: layout-role
description: >
  Full stack role using Firebase, React Native and Next to deliver a digital
  health service specialising in weight loss. Shipped about a million things in
  my relatively short time at Yazen and will forever miss this team's uncommon
  knack for shipping.
---

1. TOC
{:toc}


## E-learning

Although access to Ozempic is Yazen's most well-known selling point, the
treatment actually encompasses a broad range of measures. One that I played a
key role in implementing was the mobile app's e-learning functionality. This
involved defining a CMS schema for several modules and chapters of multimedia
content and tracking progress in Firebase. During my tenure we took this from
designs to a mature production feature in daily use by thousands of patients.

Managing thousands of pages of content across multiple languages was
operationally complex for a small team and I improvised many small tools
integrating services such as ChatGPT to streamline the work.

## Nutrition tracking

Not all weight loss patients want to track their diets, but for those who do, we
added a nutrition tracking feature during my time at Yazen. It proved an
uncommonly interesting problem space.

Ingesting a large third-party dataset about retail food products was a memorable
early challenge. Building a barcode scanner was a uniquely weird task that saw
several items from our kitchen cupboard migrate to my work desk for a while in
order to have things close to hand for test scanning. And meeting user
expectations about daily calorie counts involved answering difficult
philosophical questions about the socially constructed nature of time when
considering meals registered in different timezones while travelling.

## Localisation

The weight input UX is of critical importance for a service like Yazen. Their
expansion into the UK provided an opportunity to share some local knowledge with
the team, who were understandably surprised to learn about the British use of
the [stone](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stone_(unit)>) as a unit of body
weight. I then implemented an imperial/metric units switcher to localise this
crucial component at the very top of the company's conversion funnel.
