---
title: hivernal
image: /2021/02/21/hivernal-demo-poster@512x512.webp
tags: [blog, webdev]
layout: layout-post
---

<video controls preload="none" poster="/2021/02/21/hivernal-demo-poster@512x512.webp">
 <source src="/2021/02/21/hivernal-demo@512x512.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

Winter animation in pure CSS.

<iframe height="300" style="width: 100%;" scrolling="no" title="Hivernal" src="https://codepen.io/henrycatalinismith/embed/OJqYOwj?default-tab=css%2Cresult" frameborder="no" loading="lazy" allowtransparency allowfullscreen></iframe>

## How This Works

### Pure CSS

This is a pure CSS implementation of a Pythagoras tree with a bit of snow as an
added flourish. By "pure CSS" I mean no extra HTML elements except for the bare
minimum required to deliver the CSS in a valid way, so no `<div class="tree">`
helper elements or anything like that.

### Pythagoras tree

The tree is based on the
[Pythagoras tree example code on Rosetta Code](https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Pythagoras_tree).
I haven't found anywhere else that someone's built a pythagoras tree in CSS like
this, so here's how mine works.

I set a brown background on the `::after` pseudo-element on the body, and then
use `clip-path` to hide the parts outside the tree. To create the wind effect on
the branches, I generate two slightly different trees and use a keyframe
animation to bounce back and forth between them.

### Snow

The snow uses the same combination of `background-color` and `clip-path` as the
tree, except with circles instead of polygons. The snow moves left as it falls
in time with the swaying of the tree, which is supposed to create a bit of a
wind effect.

### Performance trade-offs

This one has slightly better performance than the CPU melting
[doomfire animation](/2020/12/01/doomfire/) I made a couple of months ago, but
it's still not really a technique you'd want in a production website. Who cares
though? It's fun as hell making these.

And just like with doomfire, one thing I really like about this is that it takes
advantage of one of the unique strengths of CSS. In this case, it's the swaying
tree animation. Almost everywhere you find pythagoras trees, they're a
completely static image. CSS made it fairly easy to bring this one to life with
the keyframe animation, whereas most other technologies would require you to
write a bunch of extra code for that.
